---
layout: course_page
title: homework 5
permalink: /431/hw5/
parent_course: 431
---

DUE: Monday Mar 6 at 5pm. Submit to Desire2Learn Dropbox. 

### Super Simple Database: Enrollment Analytics

### Materials ==> [hw05-enrollment-db.zip]({{ site.baseurl }}assets/cs431/hw05-enrollment-db.zip)

### Description
You will be implementing a small database containing enrollment records for a small university. Each record contains when a class was taught, how many students enrolled, etc... Contained in the zip file above are three fixtures for loading your database with real data from csv. Your task is:

A. Examine the database design E-R diagram (pdf)

B. Based on the design write the sql statements for creating the necessary tables (there will be 3). The sql file is provided but it is empty so edit! Run the sql statements in using sqlite3.

C. Once you have successfully created the tables, import the csv fixtures to load the tables with data.

D. After you've done C you can compose and run the following queries:

- Show all schedule records where actual enrollment is greater than 10. For each record also show which semester is associated with the record. (e.g., Fall Semester 2009).
- Show all schedule records where course level is 300 or above. For each record also show the title of the course..

These queries will require the use of ```inner join```. What do you need join?


### What to Turn In:
- You will be turning your sqlite db file, an sql file containing your create table statements, and an sql file containing your two queries.

---

