---
layout: course_page
title: homework 6
permalink: /431/hw6/
parent_course: 431
---

DUE: Monday Apr 10 at 5pm. Submit to Desire2Learn Dropbox. 

### MySQL Database: Activity Analytics I

### Materials ==> [tracked_users_data.sql]({{ site.baseurl }}assets/cs431/tracked_users_data.sql)

### Description

The tracked users database contains two tables (user and tracker). The DDL for these two tables as well as sample data are included in the tracked_users_data.sql file linked above. The goal of this homework is to correctly write and execute the following queries against the sample database **using a MySQL** db management system.

To get started you will need to create a database in your mysql server. E.g., 

> mysql> create database track_users_db;

You will then need to "activate" the db, 

> mysql> use track_users_db;

You can "execute" the sql file as:

> mysql> source thesqlfilehere.sql

Now your ready to go!

> NOTE: In mysql the sql syntax for joining two or more tables expects the ```join``` keyword.

> select * from table1 join table2 on ...

#### Query 1: Write a query that shows the number of logins per user per day. The query should show the last name and first initial of the user, followed by the day, followed by the number of logins (on that day). Order results by users last name in ascending order.

> Reid, R, 2016-03-27, 4
> and so on ...

#### Query 2: Write a query that shows the average number of daily logins for all users. The result should be one row that shows the average and the total number of logins. E.g., 

> 60, 15567

#### Query 3: Write a query that shows the average number of user logins for each month. For example, if 3 users logged in for a total of 21 times in December, 2016 then the average for that month would be 21/3 = 7 Note, you may need a nested query to aggregate users logins for each month then compute the average per month.  Order by month ascending. Show the average and the month. Example:

> 2016-12, 300.45 (in december 2016, there was an average of 300.45 logins)
> 2017-01, 200.1
> and so on ...

#### Query 4: Write a view for QUERY 3.


### What to Turn In:
- Turn in ONE .sql file containing the four queries above to D2L drop box.

---

### Solution

{% highlight sql %}
-- hw 7 queries to be found here later...

{% endhighlight sql %}