---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 5
permalink: /535/hw5/
parent_course: 535
---

DUE: Wednesday Sept 7 at 5pm. Submit to Desire2Learn Dropbox. 

---

### Simple Client Server To Stage a Remote Execution Attack

{:.yellow}
NOTE: The information displayed on this page is soley intended for teaching/learning purposes. The purpose for this information is to learn about and understand cybersecurity threats and generalized architectures for common attacks by malicious users. The techniques and code described are widely available on the Internet and in textbooks and other sources intended to inform the public and professional communities about the nature of cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities.


### Description
Write a TCP client server python program that simulates an attack. The application protocol for this simple client/server program is as follows:

1. Client sends a request to the server to encipher a file indicated by a filename provided by the client. (client needs to send the file name (string) as data)
2. The server opens and enciphers the contents of the file using a simple SUBSTITUTION cipher then...
	
	a. OVERWRITES and SAVES the file with the enciphered text
	
	b. SENDS the enciphered text back to the client

3. The client prints the enciphered text to the screen and exits.

Note: create a file accessible by the server process. Insert cleartext into this file. Example file *secret.txt*:

```my secret data is in here. please do not read. thanks.```


will become this after the server process is finished:

```q}$wigvix$hexe$mw$mr$livi2$tpiewi$hs$rsx$vieh2$xlerow2```


Your client SENDS the filename to mangle....


You can use this simple subsitution cipher. 

{% highlight python %}
# simple-cipher.py
# v.20160831

alphabet = [chr(i) for i in range(10, 127)]
alphabet_size = len(alphabet)
key = 4

def encipher(cleartext):
	global alphabet, alphabet_size, key
	cipher_str = ''
	cleartext = cleartext.rstrip()

	for i in cleartext:
		cphr = (alphabet.index(i) + key) % alphabet_size
		cipher_str += alphabet[cphr]

	return cipher_str


def decipher(ciphertext):
	global alphabet, alphabet_size, key
	clear_str = ''
	
	for i in ciphertext:
		clr = (alphabet.index(i) - key) % alphabet_size
		clear_str += alphabet[clr]

	return clear_str


if __name__ == "__main__":
	msg_clear = raw_input("Enter your cleartext:")
	print 'ORIGINAL\t==>\t', msg_clear

	msg_cipher = encipher(msg_clear)
	print 'CIPHER\t\t==>\t', msg_cipher

	msg_decipher = decipher(msg_cipher)
	print 'CLEAR\t\t==>\t', msg_decipher
{% endhighlight %}



