---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 8
permalink: /535/hw8/
parent_course: 535
---

DUE: Monday sept 26 at 5pm. Submit to Desire2Learn Dropbox. 

---

### Simple Symetric Block Cipher With Cipher Block Chain

**Related python packages**: 

```random```

### Description

Write a python program that implements a simple 8 bit block cipher using an 8 bit key (we will use a bit size that is convenient for ascii character manipulations). Implement the cipher as a function (```encipher(cleartext)```). Your program should also implement the decryption function (```decipher(ciphertext)```). The key used for encryption should be 8 bits in length. Key should be applied to each block in the cleartext (and ciphertext for decryption of course) as follows:

```ciphertext_block[i] = key ^ cleartext_block[i]```

You will need to handle clear and cipher text at the bit level. This isn't necessary since we are using an 8-bit block but it's worth getting experience working with bit strings. As you know, 128 bit blocks are the specified for *AES*.

#### Bit manipulation requirements:

- blocks should be concatenated. That is, if there are 4 blocks in your cleartext, then the cipher text should contain these four blocks as one bit string.

#### How to concatenate two 8 bit strings into one string
{% highlight python %}

p = 0b10101111
q = 0b11111111
bitlen = 8
r = p << bitlen | q  # shift p left bitlen bits then OR to q

# p and q now one 16 bit string (q appended to p):
# 10101111_11111111 # underscore shows join position.

{% endhighlight %}

#### How to extract (or "read off" a nth bitlen block from a 16 bit block. 
{% highlight python %}

blk = 0b1010111111111111
bitlen = 8
mask = 2**bitlen-1  # a sequence of 1 bits

n = 0
sublk = (blk >> (n*bitlen)) & mask
bin(sublk)

# reading off the next bitlen block ... this should be in a loop right?
n = 1
sublk = (blk >> (n*bitlen)) & mask
bin(sublk)

{% endhighlight %}

#### Applying a KEY to cleartext and ciphertext -- symetric encryption
{% highlight python %}

clrtxt = ord('g')
key = random.randint(1, 255)
cprtxt = clrtxt ^ key
# should get cipher
chr(cprtxt)
clrtxt = cprtxt ^ key
# should get a g:
chr(clrtxt)

{% endhighlight %}

- you should be able read off *k-bit* blocks from a large bit string. This necessary for processing the input cleartext as well reading in the ciphertext and reproducing the cleartext.


#### Cipher Block Chain 

[see pages 678-682 here (esp. p.682 description of CBC)]({{ site.baseurl }}assets/cs535/computer-networking-6ed-kurose-etal-chapter-8.pdf)

Use an 8 bit value for the **Initialization Vector**. 



{% highlight python %}

{% endhighlight python %}










