---
layout: course_page
title: 
permalink: /145/hw01/
parent_course: 145
---

Homework 1
----

1. Read Chapter 1 from [Think Python text](http://greenteapress.com/thinkpython2/index.html). 

2. Complete exercises 1.1 and 1.2 in Chapter 1.

Submit your responses to questions in exercise 1.1 and 1.2 in one text file. The questions in exercise 1.2 ask you to try things out in python interpreter. To submit your responses to these questions, please submit the python statements you used to find the answers.


Due: Jan 27 before 10am. Submit to D2L dropbox.
----

Solutions
----

----

1. In a print statement, what happens if you leave out one of the parentheses, or both?

**no left is a syntax error, no right the intepreter expects a closing paranthesis to complete the statement. print will usually attempt to print without paranthesis**

2. If you are trying to print a string, what happens if you leave out one of the quotation marks, or both?

** Syntax error EOL before closing quotation. If there are no quoatations, python treats the string as a variable name.**

3. You can use a minus sign to make a negative number like -2. What happens if you put a plus sign before a number? What about 2++2?

**+2 creates positive number, no error. 2++2 evaluates as 2 + (+2) which is four, no error.**

4. In math notation, leading zeros are ok, as in 02. What happens if you try this in Python? 

**python strips the leading zeros**

5. What happens if you have two values with no operator between them?

**python treats the numbers according to decimal number system: 29 is twenty nine.**

----

See (and run!) the solution below for answers to the following questions.

1. How many seconds are there in 42 minutes 42 seconds?
2. How many miles are there in 10 kilometers? Hint: there are 1.61 kilometers in a mile.
3. If you run a 10 kilometer race in 42 minutes 42 seconds, what is your average pace (time per mile in minutes and seconds)? What is your average speed in miles per hour?


----

	secs = 42*60+42
	miles = 10/1.61

	# 60 seconds in one minute
	mins_per_mile = (secs/miles) / 60
	secs_per_mile = (secs/miles) % 60

	# 3600 seconds in one hour
	miles_per_hour = 3600.0/(secs/miles)

	print('1. number of seconds \n' + str(secs))
	print('\n\n2. number of miles \n' + str(miles))
	print('\n\n3a. time per mile \n' + str(mins_per_mile) + ' mins ' + str(secs_per_mile) + ' seconds')
	print('\n\n3b. miles per hour \n' + str(miles_per_hour))




