---
layout: course_page
title: 
permalink: /145/hw02/
parent_course: 145
---

Homework 2
----

1. Read Chapter 2 from [Think Python text](http://greenteapress.com/thinkpython2/index.html). 

2. Complete exercises 1.1 and 1.2 in Chapter 2.

Submit your responses to questions in exercise 1.1 and 1.2 in one text file. The questions in exercise 1.2 ask you to try things out in python interpreter. To submit your responses to these questions, please submit the python statements you used to find the answers.


Due: Jan 29 before 5pm. Submit to D2L dropbox.
----


Solutions
----

2.1

We’ve seen that n = 42 is legal. What about  42 = n?

**variable on the left hand side of assignment is legal. assigning a variable to a literal is a syntax error. python treats the 42 as a variable which cannot begin with a number**

Howabout  x = y = 1? **legal. 1 is assigned to variable y, y is assigned to variable x. variable always on the left of assignment operator. 

In some languages every statement ends with a semi-colon, ; . What happens if you put a semi-colon at the end of a Python statement?

**ignored**

What if you put a period at the end of a statement? **syntax errir**

In math notation you can multiply x and y like this: xy. What happens if you try that in Python?

**python treats xy as a variable name**

----

2.2


[1] The volume of a sphere with radius r is 4/3 pi r^3. What is the volume of a sphere with radius 5?

	pi = 3.14159265359
	r = 5
	v = 4/3.0 * pi * 5 ** 3
	print v


**523.598775598**

[2] Suppose the cover price of a book is $24.95, but bookstores get a 40% discount. Shipping costs $3 for the first copy and 75 cents for each additional copy. What is the total wholesale cost for 60 copies?

	total_cost = 24.95 * 60
	total_cost = total_cost - total_cost * .40
	shipping = 3 + 59 * .75
	total_cost = total_cost + shipping
	print total_cost


**$945.45**


[3] If I leave my house at 6:52 am and run 1 mile at an easy pace (8:15 per mile), then 3 miles at tempo (7:12 per mile) and 1 mile at easy pace again, what time do I get home for breakfast?

	depart = (6 * 3600) + (52 * 60)
	rate_1 = 8*60+15  # seconds per mile
	rate_2 = 7*60+12  # seconds per mile

	elapsed = (rate_1 * 2) + (rate_2 * 3) 

	arrive = depart + elapsed

	arrival_hour = arrive / 3600
	arrival_mins = arrive % 3600 / 60

	print arrival_hour, ':',  arrival_mins 

**7 : 30 am**
