---
layout: course_page
title: 
permalink: /145/hw03/
parent_course: 145
---

Homework 3
----

**Develop a python program that meets the following specification.**

*If you have N eggs, then you have N/12 dozen eggs, with N%12 eggs left over. (This is essentially the definition of the / and % operators for integers.) Write a program that asks the user how many eggs she has and then tells the user how many dozen eggs she has and how many extra eggs are left over.*

*A gross of eggs is equal to 144 eggs. Extend your program so that it will tell the user how many gross, how many dozen, and how many left over eggs she has. For example, if the user says that she has **1342** eggs, then your program would respond with:*


	Your number of eggs is 9 gross, 3 dozen, and 10
	since 1342 is equal to 9*144 + 3*12 + 10.

*Hints*:

a. Use 1342 as a test value. Your program should mimic the results above.

b. Break the problem down into the smallest steps possible.

c. Pay attention to variable type after collecting user input (if using **raw_input** function).


Due: Feb 5 before 5pm. Submit to D2L dropbox.
----

*Please follow the instructions for submitting programming assignments given in the [syllabus](/145/syllabus/). I am including those instructions below for convenience.

## How To Turn In Your Programming Assignments

All programming submissions should include the following on the first two lines of your source file *as comments*:

	<LAST NAME, FIRST NAME> <DATE>
	<HOMEWORK #>


#### Example python source file:

    # Medina, Richard 1-19-2016
    # Homework 999

    def printmessage():
	    print('Hello. This is a sample program.')

    printmessage()


## Solution

#### CS 145 Homework 3 Solution

>
>	eggs = raw_input('Enter the number eggs:')
>
>	# Coerce to integer type:
>	eggs = int(eggs)
>
>	gross = eggs / 144
>
>	# Update number of eggs (left over)
>	eggs = eggs % 144
>
>	dozen = eggs / 12
>
>	# Update number of eggs (left over)
>	eggs = eggs % 12

>	print 'Your number of eggs is', gross, 'gross', dozen, 'dozen, and', eggs, 'eggs'
