---
layout: page
title: 
permalink: /145/hw05/
---

Homework 5
----

Due: Feb 17 before 12pm. Submit to D2L dropbox.
----

[Code discussed in class Feb 15](/145/demo/scratch-feb-15/)

**Note: The following program description was previously a lab problem from [Lab 4 Feb 12](/145/lab04/). If you submitted a completed version of that program during lab, you DO NOT have to resubmit for this homework assignment unless you want to. Otherwise, I will grade your lab 4 submission.**


You are going to write a program that creates and processes a vector (a list) that stores information about a rectangular shape. Information about a rectangle simply includes: ```horizontal``` and ```vertical``` location in two dimensional space and the rectangle's ```width``` and ```height```. Altogether we need four pieces of information to represent a basic rectangle.

>	A rectangular shape can be represented as:
> 	rect = [x, y, w, h]

Your program should be able to ```generate``` a rectangle with four random integers where each integer coorelates to one of the four **properties** of a rectangle.

Your program should be able to perform certain computations on the vector. These are:

- scale (resize) the rectangle by a certain value input by the user
- translate (move) the rectangle by a certain value input by the user
- print information about the rectangle as in: ```location is 20, 20 and its size is 50 by 70```
- display the rectangle using ascii art techniques.

The overall flow of the program should be:

- On begin, the program will automatically ```generate``` a rectangular shape.
- The program should print the properties of the generated rectangular shape to the screen.
- Next the program will ask the user to resize the rectangle by providing a value to scale the width and height.
- The program will perform the rescaling and print the properties of the rectangle to verify its new properties.
- Next the program will ask the user to move the rectangle by providing a **new** horizontal and vertical location.
- The program will perform the translation and print the properties of the rectangle to verify its new properties.
- Lastly the program will display the rectangle with ascii art then exit: For example, a rectangle that is 5 by 7 could be printed on the console as follows:

>	- - - - -
>	|       |
>	|       |
>	|       |
>	|       |
>	|       |
>	|       |
>	|       |
>	- - - - -

**This program requires the following functions as specified below**:

```generate_rect```(): should RETURN a new list containing 4 random integers corresponding to ```[x, y, width, height]```

```print_rect```(*a_rectangle*): should PRINT information about the rectangle given a rectangle variable (list) as its parameter.

```resize_rect```(*a_rectangle*, *scale*): should RETURN a new rectangle (list) given a variable (list) and a scale value as its parameters. Scale means to increase the width and height by the same value. 

>	For any x and y ==> x * scale, y * scale

```translate_rect```(*a_rectangle*, *new_x*, *new_y*): should RETURN a new rectangle (list) given a variable (list) and new horizontal and vertical locations as its parameters.

```display_rect```(*a_rectangle*)```: should PRINT the rectangle given as a parameter on the console using ascii art as described above. **Note**: for this function we will ignore the horizontal and vertical position of the rectangle.