---
layout: course_page
title: 
permalink: /145/hw07/
parent_course: 145
---

Homework 7
----

Due: March 4 before 10am. Submit to D2L dropbox.
----

**Part 1:**

How many times do you have to roll a pair of dice before they come up snake eyes? You could do the experiment by rolling the dice by hand but lets write a computer program that simulates the experiment. The program should report the number of rolls that it makes before the dice come up snake eyes. (Note: "Snake eyes" means that both dice show a value of 1.).

This program requires the use of the following:

- a random number generator to "roll" each die
- a while loop to simulate each roll
- a summation or *counter* to keep track of the number of rolls
- an if statement to check when snake eyes are rolled.


**Part 2**

Once you have part 1 completed extend the program so that it runs the simulation ```N``` times. Get ```N``` from the user (screen). After completing ```N``` simulations report the average number of rolls it takes to roll snake eyes.

- part 2 requires you to program the simulation (part 1) as a function that is called ```N``` times.
- the simulation function should RETURN the number of rolls before finding snake eyes.
- part 2 also requires a while loop that will loop ```N``` times each time calling your simulation function and recording the result to eventually compute the average.

**Example Output:**

> 	Please enter the number of times to run the simulation: 4
>
>	Running the simulation...please wait.
>
>	Running simulation 1
>	Running simulation 2
>	Running simulation 3
>	Running simulation 4
>
>	The average number of dice rolls to get snake eyes was 6. This was tested over 4 runs.


