---
layout: course_page
title: 
permalink: /145/hw08/
parent_course: 145
---

Homework 8
----

Due: March 11 before 5pm. Submit to D2L dropbox.
----

Helpful Resources
----

[HW 07 solution](/145/hw07)

[LAB 07 -- turtle plotting example](/145/lab07/)

**Turtle Rolls the Dice**

For this program you are going to extend the Snake Eyes program from [hw 7](/145/hw07/) by plotting the result of each simulation in a graph. You will use the ```turtle``` library to do the plotting. The turtle should plot the result of each roll as the ```y``` coordinate and use an ```x``` coordinate that increases at a constant rate. 

Use the following scale to draw each plot point in a different color:

>	number_of_rolls < 20 # color the plot orange
>	number_of_rolls < 40 (but greater than 19) # color the plot black
>	number_of_rolls < 60 (but greater than 39) # color the plot blue
>	number_of_rolls > 59 # color the plot green


After the turtle as completed the plot, it should display the ```maximum``` and ```minimum``` values from the results of all the simulations and the average number of rolls over all of the simulations. It should print this information at the bottom below the graph.

Useful turtle functions:

```write()``` to write text on screen

```penup()``` to tell turtle not to draw when moving

```pendown()``` to tell turtle to draw when moving

```color()``` to set the drawing color

```setpos()``` to move the turtle to a location on the screen

**Required functions**

```max_val()``` and ```min_val``` should accept a list as an argument and return the minimum or maximum value.

```turtle_plot()``` should accept a list as an argument and should plot the items in the list using turtle library.

```average_rolls()``` should accept a list as an argument and should return the average number of rolls needed roll snake eyes over all simulations.

**HINTS**

You will need use a list to store the result of each simulation. You can then pass this list to your plotter function as well as the min, max, and average functions.

Experiment with a relatively large number of simulations (e.g., 100, 500, 1000).


**Example Output:**

> 	Please enter the number of times to run the simulation: 20
>
>	Running the simulation...please wait.
>
>	Running simulation 1
>	Running simulation 2
>	Running simulation 3
>	...
>	Running simulation 20
>
>	The average number of dice rolls to get snake eyes was 38. This was tested over 20 runs.

[click for sample output](/assets/cs145-hw08-sample.png)

**Solution**:

{% highlight python %}
	import random

	from turtle import *

	screen = Screen()

	def max(list_to_process):
		
		max_val = list_to_process[0]
		for i in list_to_process:
			if i > max_val:
				max_val = i

		return max_val

	def min(list_to_process):
		
		min_val = list_to_process[0]
		for i in list_to_process:
			if i < min_val:
				min_val = i

		return min_val

	def avg(list_to_process):
		total = 0
		for i in list_to_process:
			total = total + i

		return total/len(list_to_process)


	def plot_list(list_to_plot):
		WIDTH = 600.0
		scale = WIDTH/len(list_to_plot)
		tick = -300
		
		penup()
		setpos(-300, 0)
		pendown()

		for item in list_to_plot:
			if item < 20:
				dot_color = 'orange'
			elif item < 40:
				dot_color = 'black'
			elif item < 60:
				dot_color = 'blue'
			else:
				dot_color = 'green'


			color('gray')
			setpos(tick, item)
			color(dot_color)
			dot(10)

			color('black')

			tick += scale


		color('black')
		penup()
		setpos(0, -200)
		pendown()

		message = 'Minimum ==> ' + str(min(list_to_plot))
		write(message, move=False, align="left", font=("Arial", 14, "normal"))

		penup()
		setpos(0, -220)
		pendown()

		message = 'Maximum ==> ' + str(max(list_to_plot))
		write(message, move=False, align="left", font=("Arial", 14, "normal"))

		penup()
		setpos(0, -240)
		pendown()

		message = 'Average ==> ' + str(avg(list_to_plot))
		write(message, move=False, align="left", font=("Arial", 14, "normal"))


	def roll_snake_eyes():
		die_1 = random.randint(1, 6)
		die_2 = random.randint(1, 6)
		result = die_1 + die_2

		num_rolls = 1

		while result != 2:
			die_1 = random.randint(1, 6)
			die_2 = random.randint(1, 6)
			result = die_1 + die_2
			num_rolls += 1

		return num_rolls

	max_sims = int(raw_input('How many simulations? ==>'))

	sims = 0
	total = 0

	sim_results = []

	while sims < max_sims:
		rolls = roll_snake_eyes()
		total = total + rolls
		sim_results.append(rolls)
		sims = sims + 1

	print '\n\n', max_sims, 'simulations were run.', 'Average number or rolls to get snake eyes is', str(total/max_sims)

	plot_list(sim_results)

	done()

{% endhighlight %}

