---
layout: course_page
title: 
permalink: /145/hw19/
parent_course: 145
---

Homework 19
----

Due: May 11 before 5pm. Submit two files (```Gradebook.java``` and ```Student.java``` to Desire to Learn. 
----

**You are going to write a program that tracks student grades. To accomplish this you will design a class called Student that models a student. Properties of this class should include a first name and a list of TEN grades stored as an array of doubles. The behaviors for this class should allow other programs to accomplish the following.**

Student class should:

- allow another program to display the info for student (name and list of grades)
- allow another program to retrieve the highest grade for a student object. **Note: this method should return a double.**
- allow another program to retrieve the lowest grade for a student object. **Note: this method should return a double.**
- allow another program to retrieve the average grade for a student. **Note: this method should return a double.**
- allow another program to retrieve a student object's overall LETTER grade using the following scale. **Note: this method should return a char (A, B, C, D, or F).**

Grade scale:

>	90-100 = A
>	80-89.99 = B
>	70-79.99 = C
>	60- 69.99 = D
> 	less than 60  = F

- this program will require you to write the ```Student``` class AND another class called ```Gradebook``` that contains the main execution method (```static void main(String[] args)``` )

- Your ```Student``` class will require you to implement a constructor that randomly assigns no more than 10 random grades to the list of grades property. The range of these random numbers should be between 1 and 100 inclusive. See labs for similar code for generating these. This constructor should accept a String argument that should be used to set the name of the student object being constructed.

- The ```Gradebook``` part of the program should create at least 1 student object and call each of its methods for verify they work. Get the student's name from the user using a prompt.





