---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 8
permalink: /345/hw8/
parent_course: 345
---

Due Monday Mar 13 at 9pm. Upload to Desire 2 Learn dropbox for homework 8.

### Circular Queue as Linked List

### Description
You are going download the [circular_queue_hw8.py]({{ site.baseurl }}assets/cs345/circular_queue_hw8.py) source code file. It contains a definition of a *queue* ADT implemented as a *circular linked list*. This file also contains a set of *unit tests* that test each method of the *CircularQueue* class. Your task is the following:

A. Add the following methods to the *CircularQueue*:

- ```find``` takes one argument, *query*. Method should return true if *query* exists in the queue and false otherwise.  Method should return immediately if *query* is found. Queue should remain unmodified.

- ```dequeue_end``` takes no arguments. Method should remove the *tail* node from the list while maintaining circularity.

- ```enqueue_cutter``` takes one argument, the *element* to enqueue at the front. Method should add new element to the front of the list while maintaining circularity.

- ```extend_queue```  takes one argument, *linked_seq*. Note: *linkged_seq* should be an instance of CircularQueue. Method should concatenate *linked_seq* to the linked list. This grows the queue by the size of *linked_seq*. **This method MUST be implemented with O(1) (constant time) efficiency.**

- ```rotate_rev``` takes no arguments. The method should rotate the linked list in reverse (rotate right): *tail* becomes *head*. 

- ```rotate_n``` takes one argument, *n*, a postive integer. The method should rotate the linked list left, *n* times.

- ```as_string``` takes one argument, *node* of type Node. Method should return a string containing the contents of the circular queue. The string should begin with the *head* and end with the *tail*. Each element must be printed with a space between. **Must be implemented with recursion.**

B. Implement unit test methods in *TestCircularQueueMethods* for the above seven functions.

C. Run your file to run the unit tests. **All tests should pass for full credit**. **Recursion REQUIRED where noted**.

### Resources
DSAP Chapter 7 (7.2 Circularly Linked Lists p.266)

### What to Turn In?
Your submission will include one source code file named according to syllabus.






