---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 9
permalink: /345/hw9/
parent_course: 345
---

Due Monday Apr 10 at 9pm. Upload to Desire 2 Learn dropbox for homework 9.

### Benchmarking Iteration

### Description
This homework exercise should allow you to observe the performance benefits of various approaches to processing data structures. You are going to write a number of functions that process lists as arrays and linked lists. You are then going to use the timeit library to observe performance differences between each of pair of functions. Functions are described below.

### Functions:

#### 1a. sum the values in a large list (n > 100000) using a for loop

#### 1b. sum the values in a large list (n > 100000) using python's sum() method

#### 2a. push (), pop() operations on a Queue implemented using a python list.
- push to end of list. pop from front e.g., pop(0)

#### 2b. push(), pop() operations on a Queue implemented using a LinkedList.
- use [linked_queue.py]({{ site.baseurl }}assets/cs345/linked_queue.py)

Write each of the functions above in one source code file. You will need additional files in the directory to reference external classes. Compare each pair of functions using timeit. For each comparison, print out the results of each benchmard (three pairs total)

### Turn In:
Your source code file containing your functions and timeit tests.

### Resources
DSAP Source Code files

### What to Turn In?
Your submission will include one source code file named according to syllabus.






