---
layout: course_page
title: homework 2
permalink: /350/hw2/
parent_course: 350
---

DUE: Wednesday Sep 7 at 5pm. Submit to Desire2Learn Dropbox. 

### Python List Rotations/Cycles - Simple Cipher

#### Description
A simple substitution cipher is one that uses a specific mechanism to replace cleartext characters with other characters following a substitution algorithm. The simplest is to use a rotating offset. For example, using an offset of 10, one could substitute all letter a's in the cleartext with the letter k (k is the character at offset 10 from a). Note that the ```alphabet``` reference is critical to determine the substitution. 

Your python program should call two functions, ```encipher```, ```decipher```  in their logical order printing both the cipher and the deciphered text to verify success.

For the ```encipher``` function, build and return the cipher for the cleartext argument using the offset value specified as parameters. The ```decipher``` does the reverse -- accepts a cipher as an argument and the offset value to use. It returns the original cleartext. 

Your cipher should handle a subset of ascii characters (10-127) for a total of 117 characters.

**Hints**

You can use the following to generate your alphabet for the cipher. Remember the offset needs to **rotate**!

>	cipher_alphabet = [chr(i) for i in range(10, 127)]

>	you may find chr() and ord() useful for mapping between ascii and ordinal values.

I will test your program with the following cleartext:

>	blue skies and snowee peaks ~ means no surfing today.


#### Example execution

$ python ```simple_cipher.py```

Enter your cleartext:```hello```

Enter offset: ```4```

ORIGINAL	==>	```hello```

CIPHER		==>	```lipps```

CLEAR		==>	```hello```


---

