---
layout: course_page
title: homework 5
permalink: /350/hw5/
parent_course: 350
---

DUE: Monday Sep 28 at 5pm. Submit to Desire2Learn Dropbox. 

### Simple Cipher Block


### Description

Write a python program that implements a simple 16 bit block cipher using an 16 bit key. Implement the cipher as a function (```encipher(cleartext)```). Your program should also implement the decryption function (```decipher(ciphertext)```). The key used for encryption should be 16 bits in length. Key should be applied to each block in the cleartext (and ciphertext for decryption of course) as follows:

```ciphertext_block[i] = key ^ cleartext_block[i]```

You will need to handle clear and cipher text at the bit level. 128 bit blocks are the specified for *AES* but we'll work with 16 bit blocks.

#### Bit manipulation requirements:

- blocks should be concatenated. That is, if there are 4 blocks in your cleartext, then the cipher text should contain these four blocks as one bit string.

#### How to concatenate two 8 bit strings into one string
{% highlight python %}

p = 0b10101111
q = 0b11111111
bitlen = 8
r = p << bitlen | q  # shift p left bitlen bits then OR to q

# p and q now one 16 bit string (q appended to p):
# 10101111_11111111 # underscore shows join position.

{% endhighlight %}

#### How to extract (or "read off" a nth bitlen block from a 16 bit block. 
{% highlight python %}

blk = 0b1010111111111111
bitlen = 8
mask = 2**bitlen-1  # a sequence of 1 bits

n = 0
sublk = (blk >> (n*bitlen)) & mask
bin(sublk)

# reading off the next bitlen block ... this should be in a loop right?
n = 1
sublk = (blk >> (n*bitlen)) & mask
bin(sublk)

{% endhighlight %}

#### Applying a KEY to cleartext and ciphertext -- symetric encryption
{% highlight python %}

clrtxt = ord('g')
key = random.randint(1, 255)
cprtxt = clrtxt ^ key
# should get cipher
chr(cprtxt)
clrtxt = cprtxt ^ key
# should get a g:
chr(clrtxt)

{% endhighlight %}

- you should be able read off *k-bit* blocks from a large bit string. This necessary for processing the input cleartext as well reading in the ciphertext and reproducing the cleartext.
