---
layout: course_page
title: homework 8
permalink: /350/hw8/
parent_course: 350
---

DUE: Thursday Dec 8 at 5pm. Submit to Desire2Learn Dropbox. 

### Password Checker and Generator

### Description

Write a python applicaton (utility) that a user can invoke to help them generate a **strong** password. This utility is fairly simple. It prompts the user with two options:

#### OPTION A. The user can *input* a candidate password and the utility will verify that the password is **strong**. If it is not **strong** enough the utility will display a message about that and prompt the user to try entering another candidate.

#### OPTION B. The utility can *generate* a **strong** password based on information entered by the user. For this second option, a user might enter some seed information such as a pet's name and the utility would generate a strong password.

##### How might we use a seed to generate a password? 
1. you could start with an scrambled alphabet then use that alphabet as a lookup table.
2. for each symbol in seed we generate the hash value ```mod`` length of your lookup table.
3. we use the hash%LEN value as an index into the lookup table to fetch the character for the password.
4. NOTE: you might need to cycle through the seed characters to achieve the required minimum length for stron passwords.

There are other possibilities that you can explore. 

#### Definition of **STRONG**: 
- password is at least 12 characters in length
- password contains at least 1 uppercase letter, 1 lowercase letter, 1 digit, and 1 special or symbol character
- password **DOES NOT EXIST** in a password dictionary. Use [cain_01.txt]({{ site.baseurl }}assets/cs350/cain_01.txt) with optionally additional passwords available at [wiki.skullsecurity.org](https://wiki.skullsecurity.org).

**NOTE**: if the utility generates a password for the user, it must still check the password against the dictionaries!!!

### Submit a single python source file and any additional password dictionaries you used. If you only use cain_01.txt you do not need to submit that.



