---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 1
permalink: /245/hw1/
parent_course: 245
---

Due Sep 6 at 5pm. Upload to Desire 2 Learn dropbox.

Turn in **two** source files: ```lastnamefirstinitial.java``` and ```Dog.java```

### Programming with Objects


### Description

####  A. Write a class that *models* a dog. All dogs have an name, age in human years, color, size, and whether they are **indoor** or **outdoor** dogs. Design methods for your dog class that:

The class name should be ```Dog```: 

>	class Dog { .... }

- Constructor for the class should *initialize* a dog object with values sent as parameters to the dog constructor. Example call:

>	Dog dog1 = new Dog("rudy", 5, "black", 'L', "outdoor");	

- compute the life expectancy of the dog. Use your own model for this. For example, you could compute life expectancy by whether the dog is indoor or outdoor, and its size. For example, a dog that is large and lives outdoors has life expectancy of 20 human years. This is just an example. Come up with your formula. Your class method header might look like:

>	public int getLifeExpectancy() ...

- provide a method that prints the properties of a dog object to the screen.

- provide a method that computes and returns the age of the dog in "dog years". Use your own formula for this calculation.


####  B. Write a ```main execution``` class that creates an array of 5 dogs and initializes each dog in the array with information coded in the program. Name this array "kennel" and name this class using your LASTNAME and FIRST INITIAL. Example: 

>	class medinar { ... }

In ```main```, this class should first create the array of five dogs then report the following based on the objects:

1. Report the average age (in dog years) of all the dogs in the kennel.

2. Report the average life expectancy of all the dogs in the kennel.

3. Print the  information of each dog to the screen.


This program will require you to:

a. Understand how to create a Java class (or object) that specifies *properties (variables)* and *behaviors (methods, or functions, or subroutines)*.

b. Understand how to create an array in Java. [online book](http://math.hws.edu/eck/cs124/javanotes7/c3/s8.html)

c. Understand how to create objects. [online book](http://math.hws.edu/javanotes/c5/index.html)

d. Understand how to use for loops to process array data. [online book](http://math.hws.edu/javanotes/c3/index.html)
