---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 3
permalink: /245/hw3/
parent_course: 245
---

Due Tuesday Sep 20 at 5pm. Upload source code to Desire 2 Learn dropbox.

### Your Own Stack API


### Description

You are to implement a very simple stack that holds Strings. The *API* for this class should include:

- a *constructor* that accepts an array of strings to initialize the stack.
- a method, ```top()``` that returns the "top" of the stack which should be string. A **side effect** of calling ```top()``` should be that the stack updates to a new "top"".
- If everything goes as planned, all of the tests listed below should pass. 


#### Hw3TestApp.java - 

1. Copy and paste the main method below into your stack class.
2. Replace the reference to my class so that it references yours.
3. Compile and run your stack class to check your implementation.

> NOTE:  You should not modify any part of the main method below EXCEPT for the name of the stack class referenced!

{% highlight java %}

// Use this method to test your implementation of a simple STACK. You will need 
// reference YOUR stack class not mine as listed below. 

public static void main (String[] args) {
	String[] testdata = {"red", "green", "blue"};

	// This is calling my stack. Replace mine with your own stack class.
	MedinaStack simpleStack = new MedinaStack(testdata);

	// Testing the API:

	String popped = simpleStack.top();
	if (popped.equals("red")) {
		System.out.println("FIRST TOP PASSED ==> " + popped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("FIRST TOP FAILED ==> " + popped);
	}

	System.out.println("***********************************\n");

	popped = simpleStack.top();
	
	if (popped.equals("green")) {
		System.out.println("SECOND TOP PASSED ==> " + popped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("SECOND TOP FAILED ==> " + popped);
	}

	System.out.println("***********************************\n");
	
	popped = simpleStack.top();
	popped = simpleStack.top();

	if (popped.equals("Stack Empty!")) {
		System.out.println("FOURTH TOP TEST PASSED ==> " + popped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("FOURTH TOP TEST FAILED ==>" + popped);
	}
	System.out.println("***********************************\n");

}
{% endhighlight java %}









