---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 4
permalink: /245/hw4/
parent_course: 245
---

Due Tuesday Sep 27 at 10pm. Upload source code to Desire 2 Learn dropbox.

### Extending Your Own Stack API 


### Description

You are going to extend the Stack class you devised from [homework 3](/245/hw3/) as follows (**if you did not complete homework 4 see below**). Use the main method below to test. You should not need to modify this method but only to use your stack class rather then mine.

** SUBMIT ONE FILE PLEASE!!! Your stack class with a main method as indicated below.

#### Properties of the Stack
- an array to hold 5 ```data``` items in the stack
- a ```top``` to indicate the top of the stack in the ```data```

Note: Your stack class should maintain a primitive array of strings. The array should be initialized in the ```constructor``` with 5 elements. Note: at initialization, the stack (array) will have null values.


```String[] data = new String[5]```


#### Methods

{% highlight java %}

// a *constructor* that does not accept arguments BUT initializes the top pointer.
Stack() {}


//Change the implementation of ```top()``` to simply return the value but do not remove it from the stack (don't update the stack pointer). 

top() {}


// Accepts a string argument and places it at the "top" of the stack.
// returns a zero or a one to indicate success (1) or failure (0)

push(String v) {}



// Accepts no arguments but a) copies the value at the top, b) erases the top (data[top] = ""),  c)updates the top pointer then d) returns the valued copied in step (a).
// returns a string

pop() {}


// Accepts no arguments but prints the contents of the stack on separate lines. Should also indicate the value of the top pointer.
// returns nothing
print(){}

{% endhighlight java %}





#### Hw3TestApp.java - 

1. Copy and paste the main method below into your stack class.
2. Replace the reference to my class so that it references yours.
3. Compile and run your stack class to check your implementation.

> NOTE:  You should not modify any part of the main method below EXCEPT for the name of the stack class referenced!

{% highlight java %}

// Use this method to test your implementation of a extended STACK. You will need to
// reference YOUR stack class not mine as listed below. 

public static void main (String[] args) {
	// This is calling my stack. Replace mine with your own stack class.
	MedinaStackEx simpleStack = new MedinaStackEx();

	// Testing the API:

	// Push data on:
	int returncode = simpleStack.push("red");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("green");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("blue");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("yellow");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("purple");
	
	if (returncode == 1) {
		System.out.println("PUSH OF FIVE ITEMS PASSED! ==> ");
		simpleStack.print();
	} else {
		System.out.println("PUSH OF FIVE ITEMS FAILED ==> ");
		simpleStack.print();
	}

	String popped = simpleStack.pop();
	if (popped.equals("purple")) {
		System.out.println("FIRST POP PASSED ==> " + popped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("FIRST POP FAILED ==> " + popped);
	}

	System.out.println("***********************************\n");

	popped = simpleStack.pop();
	
	if (popped.equals("yellow")) {
		System.out.println("SECOND POP PASSED ==> " + popped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("SECOND POP FAILED ==> " + popped);
	}

	System.out.println("***********************************\n");
	
	String topped = simpleStack.top();

	if (topped.equals("blue")) {
		System.out.println("FIRST TOP PASSED ==> " + topped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("FIRST TOP FAILED ==> " + topped);
	}

	System.out.println("***********************************\n");

	popped = simpleStack.pop();

	if (popped.equals("blue")) {
		System.out.println("THIRD POP PASSED ==> " + popped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("THIRD POP FAILED ==> " + popped);
	}
	System.out.println("***********************************\n");


	returncode = simpleStack.push("orange");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("mauve");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("pink");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("hugsnotthugs");


	if (returncode == 0) {
		System.out.println("PUSHING ON A FULL STACK TEST PASSED ==> " + returncode);
	} else {
		System.out.println("PUSHING ON A FULL STACK TEST FAILED ==> " + returncode);
	}
	System.out.println("***********************************\n");

}
{% endhighlight java %}









