---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 5
permalink: /245/hw5/
parent_course: 245
---

Due Tuesday Oct 4 at 10pm. Upload source code to Desire 2 Learn dropbox.

### Simple Stack Extended V.2


### Description

**First**, READ chapter 7. **Next**, _ADD_ TWO new methods to the Stack class you devised for [homework 4](/245/hw4/) as follows. Use the main method below to test. You should not need to modify this method but only to use your stack class rather then mine.

** SUBMIT ONE FILE PLEASE!!! Your stack class with a main method as indicated below.

#### Two New Methods To Add:

{% highlight java %}

// Accepts an integer argument. The method should INCREASE the size of the stack's data array by the amount indicated by the argument.

expand(int magnitude) {}


// Accepts no arguments but simply returns the size of the stack (length of the data array)
// returns an integer

int getCapacity() {}

{% endhighlight java %}


#### Hw5TestApp.java

1. Copy and paste the main method below into your stack class.
2. Replace the reference to my class so that it references yours.
3. Compile and run your stack class to check your implementation.

> NOTE:  You should not modify any part of the main method below EXCEPT for the name of the stack class referenced!

{% highlight java %}

// Use this method to test your implementation of a extended STACK. You will need to
// reference YOUR stack class not mine as listed below. 

public static void main (String[] args) {
	// This is calling my stack. Replace mine with your own stack class.
	MedinaStackV2 simpleStack = new MedinaStackV2();

	// Testing the API:

	// Push data on:
	int returncode = simpleStack.push("red");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("green");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("blue");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("yellow");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("purple");
	
	if (returncode == 1) {
		System.out.println("PUSH OF FIVE ITEMS PASSED! ==> ");
		simpleStack.print();
	} else {
		System.out.println("PUSH OF FIVE ITEMS FAILED ==> ");
		simpleStack.print();
	}

	String popped = simpleStack.pop();
	if (popped.equals("purple")) {
		System.out.println("FIRST POP PASSED ==> " + popped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("FIRST POP FAILED ==> " + popped);
	}

	System.out.println("***********************************\n");

	popped = simpleStack.pop();
	
	if (popped.equals("yellow")) {
		System.out.println("SECOND POP PASSED ==> " + popped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("SECOND POP FAILED ==> " + popped);
	}

	System.out.println("***********************************\n");
	
	String topped = simpleStack.top();

	if (topped.equals("blue")) {
		System.out.println("FIRST TOP PASSED ==> " + topped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("FIRST TOP FAILED ==> " + topped);
	}

	System.out.println("***********************************\n");

	popped = simpleStack.pop();

	if (popped.equals("blue")) {
		System.out.println("THIRD POP PASSED ==> " + popped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("THIRD POP FAILED ==> " + popped);
	}
	System.out.println("***********************************\n");


	returncode = simpleStack.push("orange");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("mauve");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("pink");
	returncode = simpleStack.push("hugsnotthugs");

	if (returncode == 0) {
		simpleStack.expand(10);
	}
	returncode = simpleStack.push("hugsnotthugs");

	if (returncode == 1) {
		System.out.println("EXPANDED THE STACK AND PUSHED ==> " + simpleStack.top() + " STACK SIZE EXPANDED TO " + simpleStack.getCapacity());
	} else {
		System.out.println("PUSHING ON A FULL STACK TEST FAILED ==> " + returncode);
	}
	System.out.println("***********************************\n");
	
	topped = simpleStack.top();
	if (topped.equals("hugsnotthugs")) {
		System.out.println("Hugs not thugs! ==> " + topped);
	} else {
		System.out.println("TOP FAILED ==> " + topped);
	}

	System.out.println("***********************************\n");
	
	System.out.println("Here's your stack!\n");

	simpleStack.print();
}
{% endhighlight java %}









