---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 6
permalink: /245/hw6/
parent_course: 245
---

Due Thursday Oct 6 at 10pm. Upload source code to Desire 2 Learn dropbox.

### Simple Stack With ArrayList


### Description

**Again**, [READ chapter 7 especially section 7.3](http://math.hws.edu/javanotes/c7/index.html). **Next**, Modify your stack from [Homework 5](/245/hw5) so that it implements an ```ArrayList``` _instead of_ a **primitive** array. You should only modify the following:

1. the internal data property so that it is an instance of ArrayList
2. modify your ```pop()``` method from hw5 (see below).
3. remove your ```expand()``` method from YOUR class.
4. modify your ```getCapacity``` method to return the *size* of the stack (e.g., the number items currently stored in the data structure).

Here's the Java API for **ArrayList**:

[https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/ArrayList.html](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/ArrayList.html)


** SUBMIT ONE FILE PLEASE!!! Your stack class with a main method as indicated below.

#### Modifying ```pop()``` Method:

The ```pop()``` method from your previous version should be modified so that it **removes** the item being popped. See ```remove()``` method in the ArrayList API and chapter 7.3 in the online text.


#### Hw6 Test Code

1. Copy and paste the main method below into your stack class.
2. Replace the reference to my class so that it references yours.
3. Compile and run your stack class to check your implementation.

> NOTE:  You should not modify any part of the main method below EXCEPT for the name of the stack class referenced!

{% highlight java %}
	public static void main (String[] args) {
		// This is calling my stack. Replace mine with your own stack class.
		MedinaStackV4 simpleStack = new MedinaStackV4();

		// Testing the API:

		// Push data on:
		int returncode = simpleStack.push("red");
		returncode = simpleStack.push("green");
		returncode = simpleStack.push("blue");
		returncode = simpleStack.push("yellow");
		returncode = simpleStack.push("purple");
		
		System.out.println("\n*********************************\n");
		if (returncode == 1) {
			System.out.println("1. PUSH OF FIVE ITEMS PASSED!\n");
			simpleStack.print();
		} else {
			System.out.println("1. PUSH OF FIVE ITEMS FAILED\n");
			simpleStack.print();
		}

		String popped = simpleStack.pop();
		if (popped.equals("purple")) {
			System.out.println("2. FIRST POP PASSED ==> " + popped);
		} else {
			System.out.println("2. FIRST POP FAILED ==> " + popped);
		}

		System.out.println("***********************************\n");

		popped = simpleStack.pop();
		
		if (popped.equals("yellow")) {
			System.out.println("3. SECOND POP PASSED ==> " + popped);
		} else {
			System.out.println("3. SECOND POP FAILED ==> " + popped);
		}

		System.out.println("***********************************\n");
		
		String topped = simpleStack.top();

		if (topped.equals("blue")) {
			System.out.println("4. FIRST TOP PASSED ==> " + topped);
		} else {
			System.out.println("4. FIRST TOP FAILED ==> " + topped);
		}

		System.out.println("***********************************\n");

		popped = simpleStack.pop();

		if (popped.equals("blue")) {
			System.out.println("5. THIRD POP PASSED ==> " + popped);
		} else {
			System.out.println("5. THIRD POP FAILED ==> " + popped);
		}
		System.out.println("***********************************\n");


		returncode = simpleStack.push("orange");
		returncode = simpleStack.push("mauve");
		returncode = simpleStack.push("pink");
		returncode = simpleStack.push("hugsnotthugs");

		
		topped = simpleStack.top();
		if (topped.equals("hugsnotthugs")) {
			System.out.println("6. PUSHED 4 ITEMS: SUCCESS\n");
			simpleStack.print();
		} else {
			System.out.println("6. PUSH OPERATIONS FAILED ==> ");
			simpleStack.print();
		}

		int s = simpleStack.getCapacity();
		for (int i = 0; i < s; i++) {
			simpleStack.pop();
		}

		if (simpleStack.getCapacity() == 0) {
			System.out.println("7. PASSED: STACK IS EMPTY");
		} else {
			System.out.println("7. FAIL: STACK SHOULD BE EMPTY ==> ");
			simpleStack.print();
		}
	}
{% endhighlight java %}









