---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 8
permalink: /245/hw8/
parent_course: 245
---

Due Wednesday Oct 26 at 10pm. Upload source code to Desire 2 Learn dropbox.

### Simple Linear Search


### Description

READ ==> [Chapter 7.4.1 ](http://math.hws.edu/javanotes/c7/s4.html).

Write a class that models a vector data points. For now, a data point is simply an integer value in the range 0 through 9 inclusive. Your data points class maintains an integer array as its only property. The API for your class is as follows:

{% highlight java %}
/* 
A constructor that accepts a *primitive* array of integers 
that is assigned to the internal data structure for your class. 
Be sure to rename this to your class name!
*/
public DataPoints(int initialdata)

/* 
Performs a linear search for the given parameter in the data 
returning the index of the first occurence or -1 if not found.
*/
public int find(int q)

/* 
Performs a linear search for the given parameter returning 
a relevance score or ratio. A relevance score is simply: number of occurences
of query / number of items in the dataset. 

Returns a double.
*/
public double findrelevance(int q)

/*
Performs a linear search for the given parameter. Returns the index of the LAST occurrence of the query parameter or -1 if not found.
*/
public int findlast(int q)

{% endhighlight %}

#### Your class should use a primitive arrary as its internal data structure. 

#### Use the following main method to test your implementation fo the API.
{% highlight java %}
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		int query;
		int result;
		double relevance;
		int[] rands ={4, 4, 4, 4, 7, 1, 7, 5, 3, 0, 0, 1, 6, 2, 8, 6, 5, 5, 5, 3, 7, 5, 3, 6, 5, 1, 0, 9, 8, 3, 4, 6, 1, 9, 3, 4, 9, 8, 3, 9, 3, 0, 9, 6, 9, 0, 4, 1, 2, 9, 8, 5, 4, 1, 8, 0, 9, 9, 5, 7, 1, 1, 9, 1, 5, 6, 0, 5, 4, 9, 5, 3, 0, 2, 8, 3, 5, 0, 3, 6, 1, 7, 7, 9, 7, 9, 0, 9, 5, 2, 1, 6, 1, 8, 2, 5, 1, 7, 1, 7};
		MedinaRDataPoints points = new MedinaRDataPoints(rands);

		query = 7;
		result = points.find(query);

		if (result == 4) {
			System.out.println("TEST 1 PASSED ==> " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 1 FAILED ==> " + result);
		}

		query = 77;
		result = points.find(query);
		if (result < 0) {
			System.out.println("TEST 2 PASSED (" + query + " not found) ==> " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 2 FAILED ==> " + result);
		}

		query = 8;
		relevance = points.findrelevance(query);
		if (Double.compare(relevance, 0.07) == 0) {
			System.out.println("TEST 3 PASSED ==> " + relevance);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 3 FAILED ==> " + relevance);
		}

		query = 1;
		result = points.findlast(query);
		if (result == 98) {
			System.out.println("TEST 4 PASSED ==> " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 4 FAILED ==> " + result);
		}

		query = 77;
		result = points.findlast(query);
		if (result < 0) {
			System.out.println("TEST 5 PASSED (" + query + " not found) ==> " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 5 FAILED ==> " + result);
		}
	}
{% endhighlight %}


** SUBMIT ONE FILE PLEASE!!! ** Your DataPoints class with a main method as indicated above.










