---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 12
permalink: /245/hw12/
parent_course: 245
---

Due Tuesday Nov 15 at 10pm. Upload source code to Desire 2 Learn dropbox.

### User Input and the Insertion Sort


### Description

READ ==> [Chapter 7.4](http://math.hws.edu/javanotes/c7/s4.html#arrays.4.3).

[INFO ON INSERTION SORT](http://interactivepython.org/runestone/static/pythonds/SortSearch/TheInsertionSort.html) 

You are going to write a class called InsertionPoints to model the management of a vector of integers. You are building this class to familiarize yourself with the **insertion** sort. Most of the methods you can take from your work on [Homework 9](/245/hw9) and [Homework 11](/245/hw11). A solution to homework 9 is provided on the homework sheet for your convenience. A solution to homework 11 is not available yet. Note, you will still be working with a vector of (integer) data points. You will need to add functionality to ```main()``` so that it can accept user input from the command line. Place this code at the indicated location in ```main()```. 

>	Please read this assignment carefully as the methods used to process the data array in your class will need slight reconfiguration to handle the difference between the CAPACITY of the array and the number of actual items in the array (or non-empty locations).

### Important that you are aware of the difference:

Given an array such as: ```[21][22][49][*][*]```

The size of this array is ```5``` HOWEVER the number of items in the array is ```3```.

Inserting a new item such as ```23``` into the array results in:

```[21][22][23][49][*]```

Note that the array size remains ```5``` but the number of items in the array is increased to ```4```.


#### **You will need to operate on the NUMBER OF ITEMS in the array for the methods: ```loaddata```, ```sort```, ```find```, and ```insert```**

### Example use of the Scanner class for user input.
{% highlight java %}

import java.util.Scanner

Scanner userin = new Scanner(System.in);

// Display a prompt:
System.out.print("Enter an integer please: ");

// to read what integer was entered:
int a = userin.nextInt();

{% endhighlight%}

### About the InsertionPoints class:

>	Note: The insertion sort can operate on a sorted list (insert new items in correct sorted order) or can be implemented to sort an unordered list. For this assignment the existing list will be sorted before you make an insert. 

The **InsertionPoints** class needs an additional property to maintain the **number of items** in the array (not the SIZE of the array). You will need to add this property and make sure to update it when inserting!


### Here is the required API for the InsertionPoints class.

{% highlight java %}
int[] data; //Your class should use a primitive array as its internal data structure.

int NUM_ITEMS; // Your class needs to maintain this value. Make sure you set it properly in the loaddata method and update it accordingly in the insert method.

/* 
This class does not have a constructor defined. It will use a DEFAULT constructor provided by Java. 
You still need to instantiate it though! E.g. InsertionPoints()
*/


/* 
COPY BY VALUE, the data in initialData to the internal data structure for
this class.
NEW!!! ==> the data array in your class should be set to the 
length of initialData + 1/2 the length of initialData.
If initialData length is 10, then the size of your data array 
should be 15. (this ensures empty locations!!!!)
*/
public void loadData(int[] initialData) 

/* 
Performs a BINARY SEARCH for the given parameter in the data 
returning the index of the first occurence or -1 if not found.

NEW: you need to use the number of items in the array as your initial upper limit.
*/
public int find(int q) 

/*
Sorts the data in ascending order using the SELECTION sort algorithm.
Returns the total number of exchanges made.

NEW: you need to use the number of items in the array as your upper limit.
*/
public int sort() 

/*
Inserts a new integer into the data array at its 
correct position to maintain sorted order.
NEW: you need to use the number of items in the array as your upper limit.
RETURNS: the new number of items in the array (not the size of the array).
*/
public int insert(int newItem) 


/*
Returns the length of the data array
*/
public int getCapacity()

/*
Returns the number of items in the array. Note, this is <= the length of the data array.
*/
public int getNumItems() 

/*
Returns the number of empty locations in the data array. 
*/
public int getEmptyLocations() 

/*
Prints the array items (including empty locations) to the screen.
*/
public void print() 


{% endhighlight %}
 

#### Use the following main method to test your implementation of the new InsertionPoints API.
{% highlight java %}

	public static void main(String[] args) {
		int query;
		int result;
		double relevance;
		int[] rands ={49, 22, 21, 65, 19, 2, 25, 90, 7, 2411};

		RmedinaInsertionPoints points = new RmedinaInsertionPoints();

		// Load the data in rands into points object.
		points.loadData(rands);

		result = points.getNumItems();
		
		if (result == 10) {
			System.out.println("TEST 0 PASSED. NUMBER OF ITEMS IN points DATA ==> " + result);
			
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 0 FAILED. NUMBER OF ITEMS IN points DATA IS NOT ==> " + result);
		}
		
		result = points.getCapacity();
		
		if (result == 15) {
			System.out.println("TEST 1 PASSED. CAPACITY OF points DATA IS ==> " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 1 FAILED. CAPACITY OF points DATA IS NOT ==> " + result);
		}

		System.out.println();
		points.print();
		System.out.println();
		
		result = points.sort();
		
		if (result == 7) {
			System.out.println("TEST 2 PASSED. SELECTION SORT # OF EXHANGES ==> " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 2 FAILED. SELECTION SORT # OF EXCHANGES ==> " + result);
		}
		
		query = 65;
		result = points.find(query);

		if (result == 7) {
			System.out.println("TEST 3 PASSED. SELECTION SORT ==> (list sorted) " + query + " at index " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 3 FAILED. SELECTION SORT ==> (list not sorted) " + query + " not at index " + result);
		}

		query = 77;
		result = points.find(query);
		if (result < 0) {
			System.out.println("TEST 4 PASSED. (" + query + " not found) ==> " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 4 FAILED. ==> " + result);
		}

		query = 19;
		result = points.find(query);
		if (result == 2) {
			System.out.println("TEST 5 PASSED. ==> " + query + " at index " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 5 FAILED. ==> "  + query + " not at index " + result);
		}

		query = 2411;
		result = points.find(query);
		if (result == 9) {
			System.out.println("TEST 6 PASSED. ==> " + query + " at index " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 6 FAILED. ==> "  + query + " not at index " + result);
		}

		int item;
		/* 
		BEGIN YOUR CODE TO GET USER INPUT HERE. THE VARIABLE NAMED item SHOULD BE USED TO STORE THE INTEGER ENTERED BY THE USER. 
		*/

		

		/* END YOUR CODE TO GET USER INPUT HERE. IF YOU ENTER 2410 AT RUNTIME THEN ALL TESTS SHOULD PASS.*/
		
		result = points.insert(item);
		if (result == 11) {
			System.out.println("TEST 7 PASSED. ==> NUMBER OF ITEMS IN points DATA WAS INCREASED TO " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 7 FAILED. ==> NUMBER OF ITEMS IN points DATA IS NOT " + result);
		}

		result = points.find(item);
		if (result == 9) {
			System.out.println("TEST 8 PASSED. INSERTION ==> " + item + " at index " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 8 FAILED. INSERTION ==> "  + item + " not at index " + result);
		}

		result = points.getEmptyLocations();
		if (result == 4) {
			System.out.println("TEST 9 PASSED. NUMBER OF EMPTY LOCATIONS NOW ==> " + result + "\n");
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 9 FAILED. NUMBER OF EMPTY LOCATIONS IS NOT  ==> "  + result + "\n");
		}
		System.out.println();
		points.print();
	}

{% endhighlight java %}



### **SUBMIT ONE FILE PLEASE!!!** Your InsertionPoints class with a main method as indicated above.










