---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 14
permalink: /245/hw14/
parent_course: 245
---

Due Tues Nov 22 at 10pm. Upload source code to Desire 2 Learn dropbox.

### Handling The Unexpected

### Description

READ ==> [Chapter 8.3](http://math.hws.edu/javanotes/c8/s3.html).

Begin with your solution to [homework 12](/245/hw12) or use the solution I have provided (see hw 12). I would like you to add ```try```/ ```catch``` exceptions to the main method provided below. Be sure to carefully read the code again to make sure you understand how it works. The goal is to make it complete without crashing. It should handle runtime errors.

#### Specifically:
**A:** the program must be robust againt malformed data.

**B:** the program is robust against bad user input. If bad user input is detected the program must continue to allow the user to reenter VALID data before continuing. 

#### Hints:
There are **two** locations in the code that will require a try/catch block. The first you can detect by running the program after only modifying which class to use (presumably your class replaces mine...). The **runtime** error tells you which line to **WRAP** in a try catch block. The challenge here is deduce what to do in the catch block to fix and continue with the other tests. 

### NOTE: I want you to understand the program and understand WHY the runtime error is being generated. So, do analysis and determine the source of the problem. The fix should be easy AND it should be implemented in your catch clause...


The second location that requires a try/catch block is spelled out for you in the code. We also discussed this in class. You'll figure it out.


### method to use with your (former) hw12 class:

{% highlight java %}
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		int query;
		int result= -1;
		double relevance;
		int[] rands = { 49, 22, 21, 65, 19, 2, 25, 90, 7, 2411 };

		YOURCLASSHERE points = new YOURCLASSHERE();
	
		result = points.getNumItems();
				
		if (result == 0) {
			System.out.println("TEST 0 PASSED. NUMBER OF ITEMS IN points DATA SHOULD BE ==> " + result);
			
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 0 FAILED. NUMBER OF ITEMS IN points DATA IS NOT ==> " + result);
		}

		result = points.getCapacity();
				
		if (result == 15) {
			System.out.println("TEST 1 PASSED. CAPACITY OF points DATA IS NOW ==> " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 1 FAILED. CAPACITY OF points DATA IS NOT ==> " + result);
		}

		System.out.println();
		points.print();
		System.out.println();
		
		result = points.sort();
		
		if (result == 7) {
			System.out.println("TEST 2 PASSED. SELECTION SORT # OF EXHANGES ==> " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 2 FAILED. SELECTION SORT # OF EXCHANGES ==> " + result);
		}
		
		query = 65;
		result = points.find(query);

		if (result == 7) {
			System.out.println("TEST 3 PASSED. SELECTION SORT ==> (list sorted) " + query + " at index " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 3 FAILED. SELECTION SORT ==> (list not sorted) " + query + " not at index " + result);
		}

		query = 77;
		result = points.find(query);
		if (result < 0) {
			System.out.println("TEST 4 PASSED. (" + query + " not found) ==> " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 4 FAILED. ==> " + result);
		}

		query = 19;
		result = points.find(query);
		if (result == 2) {
			System.out.println("TEST 5 PASSED. ==> " + query + " at index " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 5 FAILED. ==> "  + query + " not at index " + result);
		}

		query = 2411;
		result = points.find(query);
		if (result == 9) {
			System.out.println("TEST 6 PASSED. ==> " + query + " at index " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 6 FAILED. ==> "  + query + " not at index " + result);
		}

		Scanner scnr = new Scanner(System.in);
		System.out.print("Enter an integer item to insert. (Entering 2410 should result in successful tests.)\n# ==> ");

		/* BEGIN YOUR CODE TO GET AND CHECK USER INPUT HERE. YOU MUST USE A TRY CATCH BLOCK. 
			PROGRAM SHOULD CONTINUE TO PROMPT USER UNTIL VALID DATA IS ENTERED. 
			TEST YOUR TRY/CATCH BY ENTERING STRINGS AND DOUBLES INSTEAD OF INTEGERS.
			2410 IS THE MAGIC NUMBER TO MAKE THE REMAINING TESTS PASS.
		*/
		
		int item = scnr.nextInt();

		/* END YOUR CODE TO GET AND CHECK USER INPUT HERE.*/
		
		result = points.insert(item);

		if (result == 11) {
			System.out.println("TEST 7 PASSED. ==> NUMBER OF ITEMS IN points DATA WAS INCREASED TO " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 7 FAILED. ==> NUMBER OF ITEMS IN points DATA IS NOT " + result);
		}

		result = points.find(item);
		if (result == 9) {
			System.out.println("TEST 8 PASSED. INSERTION ==> " + item + " at index " + result);
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 8 FAILED. INSERTION ==> "  + item + " not at index " + result);
		}

		result = points.getEmptyLocations();
		if (result == 4) {
			System.out.println("TEST 9 PASSED. NUMBER OF EMPTY LOCATIONS NOW ==> " + result + "\n");
		} else {
			System.out.println("TEST 9 FAILED. NUMBER OF EMPTY LOCATIONS IS NOT  ==> "  + result + "\n");
		}
		System.out.println();
		points.print();
	}


{% endhighlight java %}




### **SUBMIT ONE SOURCE FILE PLEASE!!!** 










