---
layout: course_page
title: Homework 16
permalink: /245/hw16/
parent_course: 245
---

Due Thursday Dec 08 at 10pm. Upload source code to Desire 2 Learn dropbox.

### Linked List Implementation of Stack V.2

### Description

READ ==> [Chapter 9.2](http://math.hws.edu/javanotes/c9/s2.html).

You are going to extend the stack from [hw 15](/245/hw15) to include **top**, **find**, **user input**, and **data processing**. The methods required are listed below. These are **IN ADDITION** to the API from homework 15. Please include your Node class and Stack class in one file.

### Requirements:
Your implementation must use a linked list.

### API

{% highlight java %}
	//Constructor sets the "top" node to null.
	public YOURCLASSCONSTRUCTORHERE()

	// pushes argument val to top of stack.
	public void push(int val) 

	// removes and returns the top value from the stack.
	public int pop() 

	// prints the contents of the stack on one line.
	public void print()

/* NEW METHODS */
	// use a LINEAR search. Returns true or false if val is found in stack 
	public boolean find(int val) 

	// returns the value at top but does NOT modify the stack.
	public int top() 

	// returns the number of occurrences of val.
	public int freq(int val)

	// returns the largest value in the stack.
	public int max()

	// returns the smallest value in the stack.
	public int min()

	// returns the size of the stack.
	public int size()

{% endhighlight %}

### User Input:

#### A. You are going to add additional code to the END of the main method listed below to allow the user to add and remove (push or pop) values from the stack. This portion of main should continue to allow the user to manipulate the stack until they choose to quit. Keep in mind that this portion involves giving the user options (a "menu") of whether they want to add or remove or quit. Your code should respond accordingly. You must implement exception handling to handle invalid input. 

#### B. After the user input code has completed you will add your own test cases to assure that your stack is in the state that it should be (depending of course on how you modified the stack as a user)

### Test Method:

{% highlight java %}
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		int[] data = { 3, 4, 5, 7, 9 };
		int result = 0;

		hw16solution linkedstack = new hw16solution();

		for(int i = 0; i < data.length; i++) linkedstack.push(data[i]);

		System.out.println("STACK:");
		linkedstack.print();
		System.out.println();

		result = linkedstack.pop();
 		if(result == 9) {
 			System.out.println("TEST 1 PASSED. POPPED ==> " + result);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 1 FAILED. POPPED VALUE SHOULD NOT BE ==> " + result);
 		}

		result = linkedstack.pop();
 		if(result == 7) {
 			System.out.println("TEST 2 PASSED. POPPED ==> " + result);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 2 FAILED. POPPED VALUE SHOULD NOT BE ==> " + result);
 			
 		}

 		linkedstack.push(2410);
		result = linkedstack.pop();
 		if(result == 2410) {
 			System.out.println("TEST 3 PASSED. POPPED ==> " + result);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 3 FAILED. POPPED VALUE SHOULD NOT BE ==> " + result);
 		}

 		for(int i = 0; i < 4; i++) result = linkedstack.pop();
 		
		if(result == -1) {
			System.out.println("TEST 4 PASSED. STACK SHOULD BE EMPTY ==> " + result);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 4 FAILED. POPPED VALUE SHOULD NOT BE ==> " + result);
 		}

 		System.out.println();
 		linkedstack.print();

		for(int i = data.length-1; i > -1; i--) linkedstack.push(data[i]);
		
		System.out.println("STACK:");
 		linkedstack.print();
 		System.out.println();
		
		result = linkedstack.top();
		if(result == 3) {
			System.out.println("TEST 5 PASSED. TOP RETURNED ==> " + result);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 5 FAILED. TOP VALUE SHOULD NOT BE ==> " + result);
 		}

		result = linkedstack.size();
		if(result == 5) {
			System.out.println("TEST 6 PASSED. STACK SIZE ==> " + result);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 6 FAILED. STACK SIZE NOT ==> " + result);
 		}

 		boolean found = linkedstack.find(4);
		if(found) {
			System.out.println("TEST 7 PASSED. FOUND ==> " + 4);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 7 FAILED. DID NOT FIND ==> " + 4);
 		}

		result = linkedstack.pop();
		result = linkedstack.pop();

 		found = linkedstack.find(4);
		if(!found) {
			System.out.println("TEST 8 PASSED. " + 4 + " SHOULD NOT BE IN STACK.");
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 8 FAILED. " + 4 + " SHOULD HAVE BEEN POPPED.");
 		}

 		linkedstack.push(2410);
 		linkedstack.push(7);
 		linkedstack.push(2410);

 		result = linkedstack.size();
		if(result == 6) {
			System.out.println("TEST 9 PASSED. STACK SIZE ==> " + result);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 9 FAILED. STACK SIZE NOT ==> " + result);
 		}

 		result = linkedstack.max();
		if(result == 2410) {
			System.out.println("TEST 10 PASSED. MAX VALUE ==> " + result);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 10 FAILED. MAX VALUE NOT ==> " + result);
 		}

 		result = linkedstack.min();
		if(result == 5) {
			System.out.println("TEST 11 PASSED. MIN VALUE ==> " + result);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 11 FAILED. MIN VALUE NOT ==> " + result);
 		}

 		result = linkedstack.freq(2410);
		if(result == 2) {
			System.out.println("TEST 12 PASSED. CHAMPS WIN AGAIN! ==> " + result);
 		} else {
 			System.out.println("TEST 12 FAILED. FREQUENCY INCORRECT ==> " + result);
 		}


 		System.out.println("\n**************************************************");
 		System.out.println("YOUR USER INPUT COMPONENT SHOULD BE STARTING NOW");
 		System.out.println("****************************************************\n");
 		

 		/* ENTER YOUR USER INPUT COMPONENT HERE. SEE HW INSTRUCTIONS FOR DETAILS */

	}
{% endhighlight java %}

### **SUBMIT ONE SOURCE FILE PLEASE!!!** 










