---
layout: page
title: 
permalink: /145/2016-feb-15-ex/
parent_course: 443
---

Exercises and experiments in threads:
----

What does the kernel see
----

ps is a command that displays information about all processes currently running in your system. Read man page of ps command. Enter the following commands: (1) ```ps –ef | more``` and (2) ```ps –aux | more```. Both of these will result in displaying a long list of processes. Identify what processes are started when the system is booted, and what processes are started later on. For each process, find out who owns it, what code it is running, and how much CPU/memory it has used.

Now, store the details of all processes owned by root in a file called root- processes-1, and all processes owned by you in a file called my-processes-1. 

Basic Thread (2)
----



----

**simple-thread.py** (using python builtin thread module)

----

{% highlight python %}

#!/usr/bin/python

import thread
import time

# Define a function for the thread
def print_time( threadName, delay):
   count = 0
   while count < 5:
      time.sleep(delay)
      count += 1
      print "%s: %s" % ( threadName, time.ctime(time.time()) )

# Create two threads as follows
try:
   thread.start_new_thread( print_time, ("Thread-1", 2, ) )
   thread.start_new_thread( print_time, ("Thread-2", 4, ) )
except:
   print "Error: unable to start thread"

while 1:
   pass

{% endhighlight %}

- observe the consequences of delay. Is it predictable?

[1] Make delay the same for both threads. And check multiple runs of the process. Is the execution sequence consistent?

- what can be said about predictability?

[2] Cause an exception in one of the threads. 

- observe the behavior of non-fatal threads. Do they continue their procedure?

[3] Create 10 threads and assign each a function that runs long enough for you to research the following:

- using ```top``` or ```ps``` commands find out what the kernel *knows* about your process and its threads.


[4] Create two threads. One is assigned a procedure for reading a large text file, converting each character to upper case. (Read in 1 byte chunks converting as you go.)

>	f = open('somelargetextfile')
>	data = f.read(1)
>	while data:
>		print data.upper()
>		data = f.read(1)

The other thread computes and prints the area of circle (pi*r^2). Start the file reading thread first, then start the area procedure. which one finishes first?

[5] The text discusses how threads share variables that are process-global. How could we modify the simple thread program to illustrate problems related to shared process-global variables? What kinds of problems are there?






